From: Mohammed Missouri <mohammed.missouri@boston.gov>
Date: Thu, Jun 25, 2026 at 4:00 PM
Subject: Re: thank you

Below is the update on Hyde Park Ave that I shared over the phone, including when we're hoping to get the findings from the consultant. Please let me know if you have any questions. -- Mo

The City is currently working with a consultant to understand all of the traffic patterns around Forest Hills station. We hope to understand where people are coming from, going to, and the percentage of trips associated with the station. The initial focus is on the Ukraine Way and if there are ways to simplify this leg through circulation changes or turn restrictions. It is very likely that we will find that the magnitude of the changes required for improved recirculation would require a much larger initiative that looks at the full square of Hyde Park Ave, Ukraine Way, Arborway and Washington Street. Our current effort should help provide answers about the type of project that would need to be initiated next and if there are any localized signal and traffic pattern adjustments at Ukraine Way as a potential first step. We hope to get these results in the next few weeks.

In the fall of 2026, we will repave Hyde Park Ave between Ukraine Way and Arborway to address poor pavement condition. As part of the repaving, all crosswalks and other pavement markings will be refreshed, and we will install cast in place concrete corner islands to ensure sightlines between all users remain clear at crosswalks.

Effectively balancing the full range of multimodal needs on Hyde Park requires zooming out. We are studying travel patterns within the area to help us understand whether modifications to circulation can relieve pressure on Hyde Park Ave to create more space for multimodal features, like designated bus and bike lanes.

Our previous analysis of design alternatives on Hyde Park Ave showed that without substantial changes to circulation to reduce overall traffic in the area, pedestrian safety issues in particular would not be directly addressed, and may be worsened because of vehicles queuing through crosswalks. In addition, thousands of bus riders would experience more delays.

If results of the traffic pattern study show promise, we would be able to begin the process of envisioning a more comprehensive project for the area around Forest Hills. At that point, additional coordination would also be required. The location of Forest Hills station would necessitate extensive coordination around bus, MBTA station parking, and other station operations. Arborway is a DCR-controlled roadway also requiring coordination.

A project of this scale and complexity would require substantial changes to major signal and street infrastructure, and would need to be funded. It is expected that changes of this magnitude could not be fully funded by City capital and would require identifying funding support from the State, grants, or other non-City sources.

Mohammed Missouri
Executive Director, Office of Neighborhood Services
Office of Mayor Michelle Wu
617.306.1038 (c)

This email is subject to MGL: Chpt.66, Sec.10 Public Records Law.
